Choosing effective keywords.
Selecting the right keywords is essential to make your dataset discoverable in repositories and search engines.
When deciding on keywords, ask yourself.
What terms would someone use to search for this dataset?
Think about.
The subject of the dataset.
For example, rodent behavior or climate modeling.
Also, in the methods used, such as RNA sequencing or satellite imagery.
Include the data types.
For instance CSV tables or microscopy images.
Finally, make reference to relevant locations, species, or systems involved in the research.
Avoid overly broad or generic terms, and instead focus on specific, descriptive words that reflect the content and context of the data.